Welcome to the official SaaStr podcast
where you can hear some of the best
SaaStr [music] speakers. This is where
the cloud meets.
Up today on the [music] SaaStr podcast
There's loads of processes that Intercom
are on building software that I designed
and I was [music] a part of designing.
Proud of them and loved them. I've given
talks about them. They don't exist
anymore. You [music] have to delete
these things. They're not a part of the
future.
They need to ask yourself why you exist
in a post-AI world. Most SaaS companies
sold seats. These are seats a human sit
in. Those humans use some kind of gooey,
some crud type tasks to achieve some
outcome.
None of these things make sense anymore.
Right? None of these things make sense.
There's no seats in a post-AI world. Or
at least the way seats are orchestrated
is very, very different. People don't
use gooey's necessarily. A lot of the
product is invisible and a lot of the
quality of the product is invisible. And
ultimately the the company with the best
outcome, built on the best AI, [music]
built on the best rag system, built
using custom models, they're the ones
that are going to win.
And you've got to do that really fast.
Hey SaaStr, imagine having agents for
every [music] support task. One that
triages tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots churn risk.
That'd be pretty amazing, [music] right?
HappyFox just made it real with
Autopilot. These pre-built AI agents
deploy in about 60 seconds and run for
as low as 2 cents per successful action.
All of it sits inside the HappyFox omni
[music] channel AI first support staff.
Chatbot, copilot, and autopilot working
as one. Check them out at
happyfox.com/saastr.
Hey everybody, SaaStr Annual will be
back May 2026. The world's largest SaaS
and AI gathering for executives. Just
this last May we hosted 10,000 attendees
with 68 VP level and above attendees,
36% CEOs and founders, and 25% were AI
first professionals. It's [music] the
very best of S-tier attendees and
decision makers that come to SaaStr
Annual and AI Summit each and every
year. But here's the reality, folks. The
longer you wait, the higher ticket
prices get. They're cheap now. [music]
They're cheap. So just get them early.
Lock in your spot today. Use my code
Jason100
for exclusive savings. Get your tickets
at podcast.saastrangle.com
or just use code Jason100 when you check
out. See you there. SaaStr Annual and AI
Summit 2026. It will rock.
I got to talk to you about the
transformation of our company.
ChatGPT just had a birthday, 3 years
old.
If you look at Intercom 3 years ago
versus Intercom today, they are
entirely different companies. They're
um it's unrecognizable. And this is
really important because a lot of SaaS
companies, I think, are saying that
they're AI companies, but they're not
really AI companies. They're not true
deep AI companies. We've gone through
this transformation.
I'll show you what it's been like. I'll
show you the lessons we've learned. It's
been brutal.
Like brutal. It's really hard. It's
really hard. And if you're a SaaS
company who thinks you're an AI company
and you've not gone through brutal
transformation,
uh you're not there yet.
And so I'm going to show you what we did
and hopefully it'll help you kind of
think about things. So Intercom was
founded in 2011. I've been there since
the very start. Um it's been a long
journey, a fun and energizing one. It's
been a bit of a roller coaster.
We were a breakout SaaS company. We went
from 1 million to 50 million in ARR in 3
years, which back then was really
impressive.
Now it's not so much. Things have
changed. We really, really had these
great years and they ran for quite some
time. The company was going really well.
We'd built a great product. We had
really strong product market fit. We've
got lots of customers who loved the
product, who would tell everybody about
the product. Um but things changed.
Um we then had
five quarters of declining revenue
growth. So revenue is still growing, but
the rate at which it was growing was
declining. And this was not a good
period for the company. We had gone down
the IPO journey. We I think had changed
how we think, changed how we work. If
anyone's done the IPO journey, it
changes the company.
We were in a kind of a bad spot. And
Owen, our co-founder and CEO, came back
into CEO role. And
then ChatGPT showed up.
3 months later. So Owen had just come
back.
We were in this kind of tricky spot. And
ChatGPT showed up.
We had a machine learning team at
Intercom since kind of 2015, 2016. And a
combination of the machine learning team
and experts
telling us this was this is the moment.
This is a one-way door for humanity.
This is the real deal, the iPhone
moment, the next technology cycle. We
had very knowledgeable people telling us
that. We also had personal experience
doing this. A lot of us had started our
careers in the early internet. We kind
of knew what disruption felt like and
looked like.
Um a bunch of us had worked in different
scenarios. I'd worked in the mobile team
at Google when the iPhone came out,
which is an interesting place to be. So
you could see it. We were pattern
matching and we could see that this was
a really big deal. So we bet the entire
company on AI.
We bet the entire company. It was a
risky thing to do. We ripped up our
strategy. We ripped up our road map. We
made these decisions in a very small
number of days. Like you're talking 1 to
2 weeks after ChatGPT. We decided, you
know, we're in this tricky spot that we
had nothing to lose or felt like we had
nothing to
We had like hundreds of millions of ARR,
a lot to lose. We felt like we had to do
it. So
we built Finn and launched it in March
2023. So we went very, very quickly from
betting the company on AI to launching
And Finn was an AI agent for customer
service and people really liked it and
found a lot of value in it. And it
worked. If you fast forward to today,
Finn has over a million resolutions a
week. So every single week Finn is
resolving
over 1 million customer problems.
Um we have over 6,000 Finn customers and
Finn's average resolution rate is over
65%. So the resolution rate over those
entire 6,000 plus customers is 65%. So
in other words, Finn resolves 65% of the
queries that it's asked about. Uh
Amazing. And Intercom is on this like
entirely different journey now. We have
a very bright future. Finn is this
groundbreaking product, transformational
product.
But the journey from Owen coming back
and ChatGPT 3 years ago to today was
really hard. It was really hard and we
learned a ton of things along the way.
So
I'm going to talk about a bunch of the
the biggest things for me.
I'm going to talk about building a
culture of change and having no sacred
cows. I'm going to talk about why does
your business exist in a post-AI world?
How do you build software? How we build
software at Intercom is completely
different to how we built software 3
years ago. Actually building software, I
think, was
um our strongest thing. Some companies
are marketing-led, sales-led,
product-led. Different companies have
different strengths. For sure, building
great products that customers loved,
based on deep customer insight, was our
strength. We built processes around it.
And that's all gone. We've completely
changed how we build software.
And if you're successful with these
things, you end up with kind of two
companies. You end up with Intercom and
you end up with Finn. And they look very
different. So I'm going to talk about
what we're doing with that. And lastly,
I'll finish up by talking to you about
the biggest mistakes I think you'll make
because it's certainly mistakes that we
made at times and let's try to avoid
other times.
Okay, so let's talk about culture.
This kind of sounds like ridiculously
obvious. To survive AI, you need a
culture that won't resist AI.
And no one says that they're like going
to resist AI. It's not a thing.
Um however, look at the list of things
that you have to change. You have to
change everything.
You have to refound your company. If you
have a SaaS company and it predates AI
and it's not an AI-native company, but
it was you started the company designing
an an organization for the AI world, you
have to change everything. Your org,
your product, your road map, how you
build, the metrics, how you measure
success, how your sales team works, how
you go to market, pricing, how you
price, what does successful pricing look
like, what does successful revenue
growth look like, seats, outcomes, those
two things together. You have to change
everything.
Everything. And it's really hard to do
it. And culture is is deep. I'm going to
talk about it in a second. It's deep.
It's really hard to get people to change
things that they do. Humans hate change.
Humans We all hate change. We're not
fans of change. So we're averse to it.
And it shows up in loads of different
ways.
If you're a deep AI company, you your
product looks like this. If you're
extremely a deep AI company.
Of course you have an AI layer, but you
also have an app layer and a model
layer. So this AI layer, this diagram is
our rag system. And this is a gross
simplification of the rag system.
We believe we have one of the best rag
systems in the world. It's been 3 years
in the making for a very talented team
and it's complicated. I do not
understand the depths of that
rag system at all. It's complicated.
Um but it's necessarily complicated. We
also build an app on top of that that is
how people access the rag system, access
your AI. And you need a model layer. We
have started building custom models,
training custom models. I'm going to
show you how they work in a second. But
if you're a true AI company, you're
doing all three of these things.
You're building an AI layer and it's
complicated. You're building a model
layer. You're looking at how you train
your own models, building custom models,
looking at different parts of the kind
of space that you solve for and building
models target bits and pieces of it. May
or may not work. You're experimenting a
lot. And you have an app layer on top of
that.
So to get to this place,
you need to change the culture. And the
problem is that no one's going to say
no,
but they'll say all these other things.
They'll say, "Not now."
They'll say, "Well, you know, we should
start that next quarter. We have a lot
going on.
Our customers aren't ready for that. Our
customers don't really the AI thing, not
sure about it."
Uh last week I updated the board. I gave
them these new forecasts. If we change
if we do the AI thing, it's risky. Maybe
we don't meet our number. They're going
to give me pressure. We'll look bad. It
feels risky.
You know what we'll do? We'll dip our
toes. We'll like do a bit over here and
a bit over here and a project or two and
we'll prove it out and see if it works.
And then
we'll change. Then we'll transform.
So, step one of this journey
is you have to tell the company that
it's happening and it's not a choice.
You're changing the company. You're
refounding the company. You're changing
everything about the company and it's
not a choice. And the reason is because
AI is inevitable.
To say like AI is the next technology
cycle isn't even a new thing to say.
Where it's age that's happened ages ago.
We're like 3 years in now. AI is
inevitable. Whatever you loved about
SaaS and the last decade of mobile and
social and pre the internet before that,
it's gone.
It's gone already. So, you have to
change. You've no choice. And you can do
you can kind of like I I feel like
everyone most SaaS companies at least a
SaaS company at scale are at this
crossroads. They have two paths to go
down.
Opportunity or
whatever the opposite of that is, death.
Uh if you nail it if you truly change,
you'll become a category leader like Fin
is. You'll grow to like 100 million in
ARR very quickly.
Um
and Fin is on that path where he goes to
it. You'll be on the front page of
Forbes if you care about that. You'll
have all the series and you'll raise all
the money that you want, no problem. But
if you don't do it and if you fail and
deciding not to do it, I think is
failure, you'll slide into irrelevance
slowly but surely. New competitors will
eat your lunch. Um you'll have down
rounds. All your best people will quit
because they'll go work at the true AI
companies. And I'll I'll tell you the
company will die.
Uh and you this is a really important
we're at this crossroads. A lot of
companies and it's really important that
people pick the right
The AI revolution cannot be negotiated.
It's not something that you negotiate
with people and you negotiate with
staff. You you negotiate with your
peers. Remember all those people that
will not say no, but they'll say the
other things.
And here's the mistake people make when
they go into this journey. They say
They make the easy the easy fun choices,
building AI features and fun things like
that, trying out different models, you
know, talking to customers about it.
Like that's all the fun stuff.
But they'll avoid all the hard messy
ones like
a third of your company, you need to
part ways with them.
They're not fit for this new world. They
don't want to build the same way you
want to build. They don't like fast
crazy fast pace. They don't like chaos.
It's going to feel chaotic. Um they're
not they're not they're not meeting the
moment. Um they're just going to, you
know, slow things down, get in the way.
That's the hard part. That's the real
hard part of this. Um and then you'll
convince yourself you've done enough.
You'll do the fun stuff. You won't do
the hard stuff and you'll convince
yourself that you've done enough. I see
this all the time. A lot of people it's
just because it's hard and we don't like
change.
So, what we did at Intercom was we went
way too far.
Because the only know the only way to
know if you've gone far enough is to go
too far. The only way to know where
there's a boundary is to cross the
boundary. So, for example, uh on paper
I'm our chief product officer. I've
always run the product team at Intercom.
Uh 6 months ago I took over 2/3 of
marketing. So, I'm now actually running
marketing much more than I'm running
product uh at least for the last 6
months. So, I'm running brand, product
marketing, content marketing, advocacy.
Why is a product leader running
marketing is an entirely different
30-minute talk. Um the first thing I did
is I blew the entire thing up.
Everything's gone. Teams, road maps,
marketing calendar, delete the marketing
calendar.
People loved Coda. There was
spreadsheets, planning about plans, like
loads of stuff. The only way I knew how
to build a marketing org that was fit
for purpose for this age is to build it
from scratch.
Blow it all up and the right things will
grow back again. So, we have a calendar
now again. But it's way simpler than the
calendar we had before. And if I had it
tried to iterate from the place we were,
it wouldn't be the same. It just
wouldn't be the same. So, you have to go
too far. And people hate this. People
don't like this and you have to kind of
upset people um and explain why you're
doing it and bring them on the journey.
And for those of those people who just
aren't up for that, you have to part
ways with them. Smile, shake hands. It's
amicable. It's all good. They'll all go
on to find different things to do that
they're more happy that they're more
happy with. But you have to do that.
I'm always asking myself this question.
What would a brand new startup
incorporated today do here? And like
literally last week we're doing some
more design stuff and I'm asking myself,
what would a new company do? Would they
have product marketers? And would they
have content marketers? Or is that
actually kind of the same job a lot of
the time? Maybe we should have full
stack marketer. All right, so I'm
constantly asking these questions. What
do product managers do? What do product
designers do? All right, would a new
company have both of those roles too?
So, product designer, product manager,
product marketer, content marketer, all
that like chained together? I don't
think they'd do that. So, what would
they do? So, we're asked this question
all the time.
And I mentioned the culture runs really
deep. Culture runs really deep. So, you
have to be wary of the people you need
to keep convincing because they're going
to be a liability.
You have to be wary of those people.
Just that not everyone's up for this.
It's a fight to transform from a SaaS
company to an AI company. To see the
success we've had with Fin.
You know, by the way, it gets better.
All right. You know, the hard part gets
easier and then it gets exciting. Today
with Fin it's we're in a really good
place. But to get to that place was
really hard uh and it was tricky.
You have to delete all the parts of a
process that are not part of the future.
And there's a ton of these. I'm going to
show you some in a second. You have to
the uh there's loads of processes at
Intercom where I'm building software
that I was that I designed and I was a
part of designing. Very proud of them
and loved them. I've given talks about
them.
They don't exist anymore. You have to
delete these things. They're not a part
of the future.
And you need to ask yourself why you
exist in a post-AI world. Most SaaS
companies still seats.
These are seats a human sit in. Those
humans use some kind of gooey, some crud
type tasks to achieve some outcome.
None of these things make sense anymore.
Right? None of these things make sense.
There's no seats in a post-AI world. Or
at least the way seats are orchestrated
is very very different. Um people don't
use gooey necessarily. A lot of the
product is invisible and a lot of the
quality of the product is invisible. And
ultimately the the company with the best
outcome built on the best AI, built on
the best rag system, built using custom
models, they're the ones that are going
to win.
And you got to do that really fast. You
got to build this world really fast.
That's how we ripped it up. Took the
pain because you have to do it fast.
Because you see the new competitors
entering the market. We were worried and
we were paranoid about it.
Um and we knew we had to do it really
quickly.
One thing you got to do early is
understand how ambitious you're going to
be. So, this like really kind of simple.
Value goes up, but all you know,
ambition and risk go up too. So, you can
decide that what you're going to do with
your SaaS company is change it a bit.
We're going to help humans do a single
task in their job. That's pretty
straightforward to do. Um it's kind of
low risk. It's kind of low ambition. The
value is like, you know, reasonably
good, not bad.
Or you might decide we're going to
tackle a whole workflow.
That's way harder. Now you got all the
steps in the workflow. But the ambition
is greater. Then you can charge more for
it. Maybe the company will be more
successful uh in the long run. Or you
can decide we're going to do the whole
thing. And be extremely ambitious. We're
going to disrupt our entire business
that we run today. We're going to do the
work of the entire team. Today we have
all these people who who pay for us with
seats to use our SaaS product and we're
going to disrupt the entire thing. Risk
all our revenue or at least risk risk
the revenue growth by trying to change
it into a new AI outcomes-first world.
So, you're going to decide where you're
going to be on this on the spectrum.
And to do that, you really have to
understand the job you're solving. And
like deeply deeply understand it. So,
for example,
this these are like two examples of kind
of classic SaaS products. We have like a
meetings and project management.
We have an expense management product.
These again are like a gooey that uh you
know, what crud uh tasks. People are
like reading reading things and writing
back to systems and it's very workflow
focused. Like a lot of SaaS products are
like this.
But if you want to solve this problem in
an AI-first way really well, you have to
break down every single bit of these and
understand them really deeply. Because
what you're going to end up doing is
pointing AI at all of these discrete
things. With getting AI and getting a
rag system
uh to accurately do these things is um
easier when it's discrete. You can
experiment much faster. You can solve
bits of the problem independently and
then kind of chain them together. So,
you need to understand uh each of these
steps. And you need to understand that
you can reliably solve it.
And the reason this matters is because
all of these things compound. If you're
really really good at each of these
steps
really good like here we're really good,
very reliable, you still have to
multiply all these together. And by the
time you're finished the entire
workflow, especially the workflow of an
entire team you're down into like the
90% success rate. And if you're not as
good or you're down at the 80% success
rate, it's just way harder to build a
product unless you really understand it.
So, that's what we did with Fin. This is
again like a an illustration of some of
the system some of our AI system with
Fin where you can kind of see we have
these like custom models um
that pointed directly at steps along the
journey. Pointed directly at very
specific things customer service and
customer experience teams.
And that's how we're were able to get
such incredible results with Fin. This
is like a lot of experimentation, week,
days, weeks, and months of experiments,
constantly trying to find a new edge,
constantly trying to find the like tiny
little increases because the the the
reliability compounds, each single tiny
incremental improvement in each of these
steps adds up to something way better,
adds up to the highest performing
product, adds up to something people can
trust, adds up to something that people
will replace their humans in places with
that with Fin. But they'll only do that
if they can trust it. They'll only do
that if it's like credibly the highest
performing. So, you got to attack these
things very systematically, each step
along the journey. And to do that, you
really have to understand them.
Another thing you got to think about is
marketing the product.
Uh there's a thing that we call the
marketing overhang, and
this is like very very very common. Uh I
think one of the hardest I think
marketing AI products right now is
extremely difficult. Evaluating is
difficult, but marketing is really
really hard. Marketing Fin is really
hard because a lot of companies claim
that they have a thing, too, and their
thing works just as well as our thing,
and they have demos, and so you can kind
of see here like they're building
things, and they work, and they kind of
work a bit, and they can demo it. But a
demo isn't a product. A demo isn't a
product that works at scale. And so,
what happens is people market go to
market with this amazing product idea
that they have real demos for. They do
product launches of the demos. We have a
real Intercom that we will not that we
will not do a product launch that is not
real. We're not going to do a product
launch that isn't a real a real
demonstration of the product, and we
know that it's going to work at scale.
Which kind of inhibits us a bit, and it
slows down marketing sometimes. The
reason is
the product might not work.
And when you build AI products, you you
really really don't know if they're
going to work. You need to have them in
production, experimentation all the time
trying to find edges, trying to find
improvements in performance. And so, you
get this problem where you've promised
the world, maybe you've already signed
up customers, you've promised the world
this incredible product, and you've got
one really good demo.
But you've got a a huge delta between
what's actually possible in reality when
it really goes live and the promise you
delivered.
This is a great example of this.
Apple Intelligence. Amazing in June
2024. Apple finally here. They've
finally entered the AI race, and they're
going to have this incredible product,
and maybe they're going to win. They've
got your device, like the you know,
they've got the OS layer, they've got
loads of advantages here, customer data,
all sorts of stuff.
It's now next spring, 2026, where we'll
see Apple Intelligence finally, and and
then we'll see. Right, this is the
marketing overhang. If you're really
careful that what you're building,
demoing, is real, and it really works in
production at scale.
Okay, the next thing is that how you
build software is very different. So,
your market is different, and they have
build it very different.
Today's software is built with empirical
evaluation. So, running these of P
values, running having a robust
evaluation framework, and tweaking the
architecture, you know, using these
experiments constantly to find these
like little edges in performance,
comparing the old, comparing the new.
We've run hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of experiments with Fin, and
like obviously not all of them work.
Uh I don't know if they all mostly fail,
but certainly many of them fail. Uh or
we see an improvement in one part of the
system, but back to that like kind of
line the workflows, another part of the
system isn't as we've degraded
performance there. So, you've got to
have to think about this thing
systematically.
And then the majority of product
improvements are invisible and
unpredictable. So, in the SaaS world,
this is what building great SaaS
products look like. Most of what you can
see, you're building like really great
user experiences, really great UI to
help people do those jobs well.
And the crud back end,
you know,
tiny, kind of invisible, not a big deal.
There's no kind of tech technology
problem here. You know you can do it. If
you have like dedication, resources, you
know you can build the thing you want to
build. And actually the hardest parts
are in the user experience, making it
easy to use, easy to learn, all that
kind of stuff.
AI products don't look like this at all.
They it's actually the inverse.
Building the UI is the easy part. That's
the small part. The hard part is
building great AI infrastructure,
building great products that actually
truly work at scale. This is an entirely
different world, and my background's in
design, originally a designer, and that
the the left-hand side here was like my
happy place. You know, this is an
awesome world, and I had a a reckoning,
a personal reckoning, weeks of anxiety.
What happens in the new world? You know,
my the thing I'm good at is like the top
part, and that's really small now. And
things like infrastructure,
uh I do not I was like I'm way out of my
wheelhouse if we get into like
infrastructure layers. But I had to
learn it. I had to get better at it. I
had to kind of face reality and say,
"Okay, well, I've got to get better at
this kind of stuff."
We had these principles at Intercom that
um evolved over years, and they made us
really good at building SaaS product.
They made us really good at it. We had
like kind of six core principles, we had
like design principles, and what we
would do is we would teach new people
these principles. So, a designer joins
the company, an engineer joins the
company, we'd say, "This is how we build
software at Intercom. This is why we're
good at it, because we follow these
principles." We have a little process
for each principle, like think big,
start small, ship early, and there's
like ways in which you would do that
systematically, and we got really good
at it.
But
these principles were designed for the
SaaS era. They were designed to build a
SaaS product.
We had to abandon all this
It was it pained me. It still pains me
looking at this. It pained me to do it.
Um you know, Dez, the product leaders,
the engineering leaders, um
it was really really hard.
People did not like it. People like me
didn't like it. I loved those
principles, you know, I helped make
them. They're part of I like looking at
them on the wall. Doesn't matter.
You know, looking at principles on the
wall isn't going to build a great
business. And people were disempowered.
They're like, "This is the way I know
how to build software. I'm good at
building software this way. I don't know
how to build software the new way, and
it sounds way too technical and way too
hard for me. It's not how I think about
things."
So, there's an old way and a new way to
build software. The old way, you pick a
job to be done, you listen to customers.
If you're very good at it, you get
really good at customer insight, getting
through through customer problems, down
into the depths. You design a solution,
you build, and you ship. And in this
world, execution is certain. The
technology stack is pretty stable. Uh
you know, design is one of the hardest
parts of the process, not the
engineering side. Um
users could talk about their problems.
They're very easy very easy to talk
about like all the ways in which their
workflows didn't didn't work in their
company and their org design. It was a
stable world. Technology was stable, but
organizations were stable. How
organizations are structured, how they
think, all stable.
There was never a question of like, "Can
this thing actually work? Is this even
possible?"
There's an entirely new way to build
software, and this is what we've
changed. Again, it's painful to go
through this cuz you've got to delete
the old way, and it's risky. It feels
very risky. There's an entirely new way
to build software. You start by asking,
"What does AI even make possible?"
Like AI is a magical technology. I think
people like we kind of we kind of lost
ourselves in it. There's so much hype,
so much news, no one can keep up.
There's all sorts of mad stuff
happening. Is it like hyped, underhyped,
overhyped? Is there a bubble? Is there
not? Like no one knows.
Um but if you step back, we have this
like crazy magic technology.
Like it's magical. When you actually
step back and think about AI, and think
about the fact that it's only 3 years
old, it's kind of wondrous. You know, I
think if you went back 5 years ago and
looked at us today and the things we can
do, with ChatGPT, with Claude, like with
all the coding tools, I can not code. I
never could code in my life, but I can
build things now. I just an entirely
it's a magical thing, and we lose that.
So, there's a new way to build it. You
start with what what does it make
possible? Um what might the product be?
And can we build it reliably? I don't
know, let's find out. Let's prototype.
Let's try stuff. You then later build
the kind of uh crud part, the the UX,
the UI. You build that later. You ship,
and then you look at scale. You look at
like does it work in the real world at
scale for thousands thousands of
companies. So, there's way more
possibilities, but it's way more
ambiguous. It's a way it's more chaotic.
Execution's uncertain. You got to throw
stuff away sometimes, start again.
Um and you learn the most when it's
live.
There's also like these new muscles to
grow. This These are uh blog posts. We
have a we have a research blog.
Again, like our machine learning team's
been around at Intercom for a long time.
It's now way bigger than it was. It's
now called the AI group. Um uh we
rebranded it. And um
it's an amazing team, and I've learned
so much from these things. But this is
like way out of my wheelhouse, way out
of our product team's wheelhouse, and
way out of some of the engineers'
wheelhouse, too. There's like empirical
evaluation. It's way more scientific.
There's like scientific rigor required.
Um you need to like really understand
causality and like how things change
other things.
Uh there's a whole new world to to
learn.
And design has changed as well. This is
you know, design when we used to build
software, design was kind of the hardest
part. Design was often the bottleneck.
Design was often the difference between
a great product and a good product. Like
it's because it was better designed. Um
this is what we do. We would like sketch
out the wireframe, we'd sketch some
ideas, we'd pick one, we'd we'd iterate
that a bit, and then we'd ship. And the
reason we work this way is because
design is expensive.
This is the new world.
You don't work like that anymore. Design
is now cheap.
And you can do loads of stuff quickly.
PMs can design stuff. Engineers can
design and stuff. People can prototype
stuff. You can give these systems like
principles and rules and guidelines and
product design
rules of thumb and you can just build
stuff really quickly.
You can explore really really fast and
so the possibilities are much much more
open.
Another course that needs to change is
within your company. Well, if design was
expensive and now it's cheap, what does
that mean for designers? If PMs can
design, do PMs also PM still? Like how
does this how does all this work? So
there's changes we've made, big changes
we've made.
The old way was should designers code?
If you're a designer like me, oh my god,
this question like for years and years
existential
like navel-gazing about whether
designers should code. Yes, designers
should code. In fact, they do and I'm
going to show you that in a second.
Designers should code, of course, and
now they can and they should. What about
engineering velocity? Like eking out
incremental improvements.
We
are two-xing our engineering velocity.
Hackathons, playing around with stuff
versus saying AI engineering is now the
default. Here's examples of this. This
is Domingo from our product design team.
Just talking about him kind of shipping
some front-end change.
Every single designer in Intercom has
shipped code to production.
Like a year ago, maybe 18 months ago,
no designer in I shipped to production.
We went from zero to every single
designer shipping code to production
because we said we're going to do it.
Remember, AI is non-negotiable. We said
every designer is now shipping code to
production. It is now part of your job.
If you don't like that,
we had a great run, but we should part
ways and you should go somewhere where
designers don't have to ship code and
we'll hire designers who loved the idea
of shipping.
This is really empowering for all the
people because what it means is that all
of these designers can I fix all the
front-end bugs that they hated for so
long.
Right? The old world was like annoying
engineers, please fix that stupid
two-pixel thing, right? Now designers
can change all of the stuff. So we
started small, little changes like that,
like little UI bugs,
and it's going to grow. And the design
team is loving this. If you go on
LinkedIn, you'll see all of our product
design team shipping these code changes
to code and loving it.
We've also doubled engineering
productivity or on the path to doubling
engineering productivity and the only
way we did it is the same as design. We
said, it's happening. We're doing it.
It's non-negotiable. If you like that,
you're going to love this. And if you
don't like it, we're probably not the
right match for each other anymore.
It's you got to pick a hard to hack
metric. So two-xing productivity, you
have to
like enable the team internally. You got
to explain why we're doing it. You got
to persuade people. You got to get
people on side.
Explain why this is valuable to the
company. Explain why this is amazing for
their careers. You know, since since
Finn's success, one of the hard parts
being a leader at a company that's now
succeeding is everyone wants to hire all
your team.
It's really good for your career if
you're a designer who can code. It's
really good for your career if you're an
engineer who says we two-x productivity
and I can tell you how to do it.
So we're publishing all this stuff
externally, too. We have this Ideas blog
and you'll see a lot of the design team
on the Ideas blog posting kind of
frameworks for how they're doing this
stuff.
Okay, next is GTM. So how do you do
go-to-market with an AI product?
Again, there's a ton in this. I'm going
to just cover some small things.
Customers do not know how to buy AI.
Especially if your customers are not
technologists like everyone in this room
is. They don't know what how it works.
It's it's a black box. It's a mystery.
It's also scary. You know, we living and
breathing this thing can't keep up. So
like God help anyone outside of
technology. And most of our customers
are people outside of technology for the
most part. So you need to help people
understand AI. You need to really invest
in education. Customers don't know how
to value an AI product. They don't know
how to run good evaluations. Often times
we look at Finn we lose a deal. There's
a head-to-head. We look at the eval and
you're like, "Shit, they didn't set it
right."
You know, like they just if they'd
learned a bit more, maybe we still would
have lost, but I think we would have
done way better if they set up the
evaluation properly.
You got to market your strongest
differentiator, which might not be like
this big screenshot UI. And then you got
to really invest in happy customers and
successful customers. The the people are
just looking out. People are crying out
for education. They're looking for like,
"Show me people I don't know what to do.
Show me people like me who've done it
already and I'll learn from them." So
customer advocacy is just enormously
important.
The product marketing has changed, too.
Like all these products look the same. A
lot of AI products do look the same. A
lot of them are now AI agents. They all
kind of look like some kind of chat
interface. They all do different things,
but they all kind of look the same. It's
hard to tell them apart. Look at five
competitors, they all kind of look the
same. So actually the pitch is actually
much more about infrastructure
than it is about features. You know, we
talk at length about Finn's rag system,
at length about this empirical evidence,
our scientific rigor, why Finn is better
at scale across these like hundreds and
thousands of customers. That's like a
different way to market a product.
That's not how the typically SaaS
products are marketed.
And the buyer has changed. So the in the
old world, this is our example from
Finn, but I think this is like fairly
universally true. In the old world, what
happened with us was we had a customer
service product. So we have a customer
service leader buying the product. We
have an ops leader, but they're not the
buyer. They have influence, so we need
to kind of get them on side, talk to
them, market to them. And the team. The
team are like good vibes, you know, good
for loyalty. They'll tell the boss which
one to pick, but ultimately there's a
single buyer.
Doesn't work like that anymore.
There's a
there isn't a single buyer anymore. So
for example, with Finn, we have yes, the
customer service leader and they're
still heavily you know, heavily
influential. They have a lot of clout,
but they don't make the decision.
And the reason is because there's two
other people involved. Specifically a
C-level executive cuz their job is AI
transformation.
They've been told, "Hey, my job as a
C-level executive is AI transformation
of our company. We're changing how we
work. We're going to start with customer
service. So I'm sorry, but I'm going to
pick the tool. Actually, I'm going to
decide. You know, you can help me inform
me, but you know, and then there's the
AI person. There's like an IT buyer
here. It's often an AI kind of someone
who's very fluent in AI. Maybe they run
an AI team and they're going to evaluate
if the thing is actually good. Like
again, these AI products are invisible.
It's hard to remember the iceberg, hard
to know if it's good or not good. So we
have a whole different kind of setup
here. It's good good at marketing to
these people, selling to these people. A
CEO and a customer service leader live
in different universes.
They don't go to the same events. They
don't like the same things. They don't
read the same things. They're at
different zoom levels. So I'm doing like
dinners with like CEOs. I'm going to
like trade shows for customer service
leader. We're doing all sorts of
different types of activities because
they're not like the Venn diagram here
isn't even overlapping at times.
So
if you do this really well
and you're really successful at it,
you got a different problem and that's
where we're at today. We now have two
companies. We have Intercom, the SaaS
company, SaaS product, seats,
and we have Finn, the AI product,
outcomes.
And with Intercom, we have a really easy
product domain to understand, easy to
road map, easy to talk to customers
about us. They've done this thing for 10
years. They know how to talk to us about
it. They know what features are missing.
We've got predictable metrics. We've got
history for these metrics for a decade.
We've got like a really clear
differentiator. We know what not to
break. We can kind of look at like
different types of activities.
But Finn is a different beast entirely,
a new product domain.
Customer service teams, customer
experience teams. If you were selling to
sales teams, if you sell to marketing
teams,
everything's changing in their world
chaotic. They don't know how to even
talk to you about what they need. They
don't know what they need. Everything's
changing so fast. No one really knows
what the future looks like. So it's
really hard to articulate those jobs to
be done. People actually don't really
know what the job to be done is. So it's
really important to help them. The
metrics are really unpredictable. What
will this outcomes revenue do to the
seats revenue? And actually we think
about that. What's the is it what is
this actually good? Is it not good?
Geez, I'm looking at like all these
lovable's of the world. You know,
where's we're just here like, "Holy
look at their growth chart. Can we
have a growth chart like that? Or is
ours okay? Ours is really good, but is
it you know, Finn's growing 300% year
over year. Is that
bad?" Right? So everything changes. The
differentiator is often performance,
evaluations, head-to-heads. And you got
to do startup stuff. We kind of say it's
a bit of a kind of cliche maybe to say
like you're
a restartup reborn and we're trying to
run Intercom like a startup. Intercom's
1,200 people. We are trying to run it
like a startup, which means it's a bit
chaotic.
But I think I think a bit of chaos is
actually good. It means we move fast. We
ship things.
And then we end up in this situation,
which is like Intercom, Finn. We're
trying to work out the brand. What's the
brand relationship between these two?
But I'll take it. It's
a good it's a good problem to have.
Okay, so let me finish up with just
mistakes I think you might make along
the way.
We've made some of these. I've seen
other people that I talked to make them
and I'm telling you them, so I hope you
don't make them.
One is you won't reimagine your product.
You'll add AI to your product.
That is not reimagining your product.
Finn
is totally different to Intercom. It's a
completely different product. The two of
them are like they've almost nothing in
common in some ways. It's a completely
different product. I'm like, "Yes, Finn
is Finn usage is eating Intercom usage
at times." They're totally different
products. You design them totally
differently. Think about them totally
differently. So you won't reimagine your
product. And again, you do the easy
stuff. You add a bit of AI to it. It's
not the same thing.
You won't make self-harming decisions to
win. You'll protect revenue. You don't
want to piss off the board. You know,
you don't want to piss off your sales
leader. Like there's loads of reasons
and loads of places where you won't say,
"Do you know what? We're going to take a
10% revenue hit to do the right thing
for the long term or even the medium
term." These self-harm decisions are
critical. Remember I said at the start,
it's brutal. It's a really hard
transition. It's really hard. If it
doesn't feel really painful, you're not
deep enough. You're not going far
enough.
You got to refine your company to fight
properly. You need people who are going
to fight for success, fight for these
amazing outcomes. And they're there to
be had, by the way. If we can do it, any
SaaS company can do it. There's nothing
special about us. There's nothing unique
about us. Uh we just decided to do it.
We decided to refine the company, and we
decided to fight for it. And it was
hard. There was tension. There was a lot
of disagreements. People fight with each
other. Positively fighting, you know,
not actually fighting.
So, you'll avoid that cuz you have
people who hate change.
And lastly, these are the things you
will do. You'll dilute down the vision.
You know, you're like, "Oh, you know,
we'll just kind of dial it down a little
bit. We have a vision. It's kind of new
stuff. We'll kind of dilute it down or
we'll delay. Hey, you know what? Q1 we
we can we can do a great Q1. We'll do it
in Q2."
You'll convince yourself you've done
enough. You'll do the easy stuff, not
the hard stuff.
Um big company habits and slowness will
creep in. You'll listen too much to
customers who say no to AI. We had lots
of this. We had loads of people saying
to us, "We're not ready for AI. We don't
want to do AI. Actually, we're going to
differentiate ourselves on human service
forevermore."
Um and now they use Finn, right? So, you
have to really think about who you're
listening to and what they're saying and
why they're saying it. Cuz all of those
businesses that you sell to, they don't
like change, either. And they don't want
to transform, either, cuz it's really
hard to do.
And then you'll make these mistakes and
deny it to yourself or deny it to your
team.
Uh you got to be really honest. We've
had the most honest
soul-searching
conversations in our exec team. We still
do today. You know, every day in our
exec team there's like some version of
some existential question that might
mean we do or don't succeed greatly or
you know, it's you really have to like
on look each other in the eye. Build
these deep relationships with your peers
and colleagues.
So, that's how we did it. That's what we
did. Um
you can learn more on our ideas blog.
You can learn more about our research or
AI research on our research blog. If you
want these slides, I'm very happy to
share them with people. Uh just email
me, and then we'll send you on the
slides. All right, thank you.
Hey SaaSter, imagine having agents for
every [music] support tab. One that
triages tickets, another that catches
duplicates, one that spots churn. That'd
be pretty amazing, right? HappyFox just
made it real with Autopilot. These
[music] pre-built AI agents deploy in
about 60 seconds and run for as low as 2
cents per successful action. All of it
sits [music] inside the HappyFox
omnichannel AI-first support stack.
Chatbot, copilot, and autopilot working
as one. Check them out at
happyfox.com/saaster. [music]